% Options for packages loaded elsewhere
\PassOptionsToPackage{unicode}{hyperref}
\PassOptionsToPackage{hyphens}{url}
%
\documentclass[
]{article}
\usepackage{lmodern}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{ifxetex,ifluatex}
\ifnum 0\ifxetex 1\fi\ifluatex 1\fi=0 % if pdftex
  \usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
  \usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}
  \usepackage{textcomp} % provide euro and other symbols
  \usepackage{amssymb}
\else % if luatex or xetex
  \usepackage{unicode-math}
  \defaultfontfeatures{Scale=MatchLowercase}
  \defaultfontfeatures[\rmfamily]{Ligatures=TeX,Scale=1}
\fi
% Use upquote if available, for straight quotes in verbatim environments
\IfFileExists{upquote.sty}{\usepackage{upquote}}{}
\IfFileExists{microtype.sty}{% use microtype if available
  \usepackage[]{microtype}
  \UseMicrotypeSet[protrusion]{basicmath} % disable protrusion for tt fonts
}{}
\makeatletter
\@ifundefined{KOMAClassName}{% if non-KOMA class
  \IfFileExists{parskip.sty}{%
    \usepackage{parskip}
  }{% else
    \setlength{\parindent}{0pt}
    \setlength{\parskip}{6pt plus 2pt minus 1pt}}
}{% if KOMA class
  \KOMAoptions{parskip=half}}
\makeatother
\usepackage{xcolor}
\IfFileExists{xurl.sty}{\usepackage{xurl}}{} % add URL line breaks if available
\IfFileExists{bookmark.sty}{\usepackage{bookmark}}{\usepackage{hyperref}}
\hypersetup{
  pdftitle={Netflix and the Rise of Streaming Services},
  pdfauthor={Janett Casillas},
  hidelinks,
  pdfcreator={LaTeX via pandoc}}
\urlstyle{same} % disable monospaced font for URLs
\usepackage[margin=1in]{geometry}
\usepackage{graphicx}
\makeatletter
\def\maxwidth{\ifdim\Gin@nat@width>\linewidth\linewidth\else\Gin@nat@width\fi}
\def\maxheight{\ifdim\Gin@nat@height>\textheight\textheight\else\Gin@nat@height\fi}
\makeatother
% Scale images if necessary, so that they will not overflow the page
% margins by default, and it is still possible to overwrite the defaults
% using explicit options in \includegraphics[width, height, ...]{}
\setkeys{Gin}{width=\maxwidth,height=\maxheight,keepaspectratio}
% Set default figure placement to htbp
\makeatletter
\def\fps@figure{htbp}
\makeatother
\setlength{\emergencystretch}{3em} % prevent overfull lines
\providecommand{\tightlist}{%
  \setlength{\itemsep}{0pt}\setlength{\parskip}{0pt}}
\setcounter{secnumdepth}{-\maxdimen} % remove section numbering
\ifluatex
  \usepackage{selnolig}  % disable illegal ligatures
\fi

\title{Netflix and the Rise of Streaming Services}
\author{Janett Casillas}
\date{3/8/2021}

\begin{document}
\maketitle

\hypertarget{are-netflix-originals-dominating-the-site}{%
\subsection{Are Netflix Originals Dominating the
Site?}\label{are-netflix-originals-dominating-the-site}}

When it was announced that The Office was set to leave Netflix at the
end of 2020, many articles came out speculating that Netflix was going
to lose millions in revenue from subscribers who would cancel their
subscriptions as a result. An article published in
\href{https://www.inmyarea.com/research/netflix-losing-subscribers-when-the-office-leaves}{InMyArea.com},
a website that both provides information about locally available
internet, TV, and network providers, and conducts research regarding
usage of such services, estimated that based on survey findings, up to
10\% of Netflix users, or about 6 million people, would cancel their
memberships when The Office left Netflix. The Office leaving Netflix was
a result of NBCUniversal buying the rights for the show and streaming it
on its relatively-new platform, Peacock. This is the latest example of a
major fan-favorite TV show leaving the platform, coming in a year after
Friends was taken off and moved to HBOMax and other services, if you
paid for the premium version of that subscription.

The Office fans after 12/31/2020:

\includegraphics{michael_scott.gif}

The loss of these two shows from Netflix goes along with the recent rise
of streaming services, which according to a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/18/business/media/streaming-hollywood-revolution.html}{New
York Times article} published in 2019, is the ``Hollywood'' shift of our
generation. Netflix was the pioneer of this shift when, in 2007, it
began to allow users to stream content from their accounts. This
disrupted the traditional cable that dominated at the time. For the low
price of 8 dollars a month, compared to the prices of cable TV providers
that ran in the hundreds, it served as an alternative way for those who
could not afford or were uninterested in paying the full amount for
cable TV, to watch their favorite shows and movies. Over a decade later,
Netflix is still the dominant streaming service on the market, but its
competition is growing. Many more media companies have adapted to the
streaming model, and have since then released platforms of their own
that feature their content exclusively, such as Disney+. What this has
meant for Netflix is the loss of contracts and rights to stream content
from specific companies, with the latest major blow being the
aforementioned The Office. Now, instead of consumers turning to Netflix
as an alternative to cable TV, they are having to decide which streaming
services to pay for by looking at which ones have most of the content
that they would like to watch.

While it is too still early in the year to analyze the effects of The
Office leaving the platform, as a long-time Netflix user myself, I have
personally seen what I deem to be a decline in the quality of content
available. My finally originally purchased it around 2011 when I was in
middle school, and we paid the initial 8 dollars a month fee. As time
has passed, I am seeing that more and more Netflix originals are
dominating my feed, and I find myself taking longer to pick something to
watch. One of the major problems I find with Netflix Originals is they
often run for a couple of seasons before they are discontinued without
an official ending or closure. If not that, a lot of my issues with this
are purely personal preferences - the concepts of the shows are not as
interesting to me as those of shows from other networks. Ultimately, I
choose to watch reality TV shows, with the understanding that they are
not going to be great - only entertaining enough. What is left for me is
a streaming service that is over-saturated with original content that I
am not interested in, for which I now pay over 14 dollars a month. Once
quarantine is over, I will most likely cancel my subscription.

\hypertarget{about-the-project}{%
\subsection{About the Project}\label{about-the-project}}

For this project, I was interested in looking at licensed content and
Netflix originals over time. I used a dataset from
\href{https://www.kaggle.com/shivamb/netflix-shows}{kaggle.com} that
consists of all of the movies and TV shows available on Netflix as of
2021. Interestingly, the publisher notes that since 2010, the number of
TV shows has about tripled, while the number of movies has actually
decreased, which is reflected in the graphs below. For my analysis, I
decided to exclude all of the children's content available by filtering
out the ratings for those, since that is a demographic with entirely
different dynamics. I was interested in looking at data for the type of
content that people paying for the service would watch. In the dataset,
there is no variable that indicates whether the content is licensed or
original. in order to determine that, I looked at whether the year it
was added to Netflix matched the year it was released. If it did, it was
a Netflix original, and if not it was licensed. Finally, I excluded data
from 2021 since the data for this year is not complete.

\hypertarget{the-graphs}{%
\subsection{The Graphs}\label{the-graphs}}

In this choropleth map, I wanted to look a the percentage of content
that was a Netflix original across the world in countries that have over
3 titles listed in the dataset. There is no evident spatial trend,
however I did find it interesting to see that the amount of Netflix
originals is about half of the total content in many of the countries.

\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-2-1.pdf}

For some further analysis, I wanted to look at data for the top 15
countries that have the most content available on Netflix. As seen, the
US still has over 3 times the amount of content as India, the country
with the second-highest amount.

\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-3-1.pdf}

Despite the differences in the total number content available, it
appears that overall all countries are experiencing a rise the
proportion of content that is a Netflix original. In some places such as
Mexico, it now comprises more than half of the total content. Other
countries, such as Egypt and Turkey are beginning to see the first
Netflix originals.

\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-4-1.pdf}

Over the years, it is clear that both the number and overall proportion
of Netflix originals is increasing.

\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-1.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-2.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-3.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-4.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-5.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-6.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-7.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-8.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-9.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-10.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-11.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-12.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-13.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-14.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-15.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-16.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-17.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-18.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-19.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-20.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-21.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-22.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-23.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-24.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-25.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-26.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-27.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-28.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-29.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-30.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-31.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-32.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-33.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-34.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-35.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-36.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-37.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-38.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-39.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-40.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-41.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-42.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-43.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-44.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-45.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-46.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-47.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-48.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-49.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-50.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-51.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-52.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-53.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-54.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-55.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-56.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-57.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-58.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-59.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-60.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-61.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-62.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-63.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-64.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-65.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-66.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-67.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-68.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-69.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-70.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-71.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-72.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-73.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-74.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-75.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-76.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-77.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-78.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-79.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-80.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-81.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-82.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-83.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-84.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-85.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-86.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-87.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-88.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-89.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-90.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-91.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-92.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-93.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-94.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-95.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-96.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-97.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-98.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-99.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-5-100.pdf}
As mentioned earlier, the publisher of the dataset noted that since
2010, the number of TV shows had tripled, while the number of movies had
decreased. For this reason, I decided to split the data by movies and TV
shows. This revealed that most of the increase in Netflix originals came
from TV shows, and that in movies licensed content was still the
majority.

\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-1.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-2.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-3.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-4.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-5.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-6.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-7.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-8.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-9.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-10.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-11.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-12.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-13.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-14.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-15.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-16.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-17.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-18.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-19.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-20.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-21.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-22.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-23.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-24.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-25.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-26.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-27.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-28.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-29.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-30.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-31.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-32.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-33.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-34.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-35.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-36.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-37.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-38.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-39.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-40.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-41.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-42.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-43.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-44.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-45.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-46.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-47.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-48.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-49.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-50.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-51.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-52.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-53.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-54.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-55.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-56.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-57.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-58.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-59.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-60.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-61.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-62.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-63.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-64.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-65.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-66.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-67.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-68.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-69.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-70.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-71.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-72.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-73.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-74.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-75.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-76.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-77.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-78.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-79.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-80.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-81.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-82.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-83.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-84.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-85.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-86.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-87.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-88.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-89.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-90.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-91.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-92.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-93.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-94.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-95.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-96.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-97.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-98.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-99.pdf}
\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-100.pdf}
Going back to the US since that is the content that I watch, as of 2020,
almost half of the content rated for teens and up is a Netflix original.
This goes along with my personal observations from having Netflix for
about 10 years now - over half of the shows on the platform are
originals. Meanwhile, it seems that the number of available movies is on
the decline.

\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-7-1.pdf}

\includegraphics{finalproject_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-8-1.pdf}

\hypertarget{conclusion}{%
\subsection{Conclusion}\label{conclusion}}

Overall, doing this project allowed me to confirm the observations that
I had been making recently. Though not necessarily through fault of
their own, Netflix has been losing more and more content to media
companies and their competing streaming platforms. It makes sense that
Netflix is focusing on its TV shows, as from the start the platform is
known for having binge-worthy shows. Only now, they are losing their
ability to license them, and to keep up they are ramping up the
production of original TV shows. It is unfortunate that even though
Netflix began as a cheap alternative to cable TV, it along with other
streaming services have become the new cable TV with people having to
pay cable TV prices for multiple subscriptions. Personally, once I
graduate and lose my student discounts, I will likely cancel everything
and simply purchase or rent shows and movies that I like to watch
instead of paying for these multiple subscriptions that I do not use
often.

\hypertarget{sources}{%
\subsection{Sources}\label{sources}}

\url{https://www.kaggle.com/shivamb/netflix-shows}
\url{https://www.inmyarea.com/research/netflix-losing-subscribers-when-the-office-leaves}
\url{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/18/business/media/streaming-hollywood-revolution.html}

\href{https://github.com/janettcasillas/finalproject_introtodatascience/blob/main/finalproject.Rmd}{GitHub
Link}

\end{document}
